The speaker has always talked in three different ways in the teachings. Of course, there are many,
many ways to understand exploring, have beauty, have nature, have qualities, have activities, but
to simplify everything and do again in the three levels.
More highly advanced level, and then kind of semi-advanced level, and more kind of a mundane or
regular level to discover.
Supposedly speaking about more advanced levels, more highly advanced, more highly deepest nature of
the way, exactly as it is that level.
This nature, he is known as then, has summoned the baddies, Buddha summoned the baddies, mother of
the old Buddhas, old male Buddhas,
female Buddhas, Buddhas of the past, present, and future, every enlightened beings, not just the
Buddhas, but also Bodhisattva, all the practicing,
everyone because knowing their natural, as it is, according their capabilities, whatever they
capture, their realization,
accordingly, then, in the Buddha teaching, named as like past building Buddha of, sorry, past
building Bodhisattva, second building Bodhisattva,
or in the past part, second part, third part, and so forth, because of her capture of her nature.
That nature is what, this mother nature, mother absolute nature of the Buddha summoned the baddie,
all these things, is the total openness, infinite,
free from the obscurations, free from all the consulting thought, is inconceivable nature, and
which is also known as the great emptiness.
Great emptiness is not just the emptiness, but great emptiness of beyond the conception, great
wisdom is beyond the conception,
and great compassion is beyond the conception, great loving-kind is beyond the conception, that
beyond, that infinite, that inexpressible nature is known as the absolute mother,
wisdom that conditions others, or is also known as the mother summoned baddies, or sometimes in the
Buddha teaching, named as mother punya paramata.
This is designated, this nature has no, not, what's called, partialities, it's totally pervasive.
We all have this nature, everyone has this nature, but our nature is blocked by obscurations for
the time.
We have to explore this. So her nature is, in a way, waiting us to get up the enlightenment.
Here she is waiting all the time, no matter whatever the situation, sometimes we go through life
after life, day after day, or the year after year,
the nature of the, the absolute nature of the mother punya paramata or the wisdom that conditions
others never change, never tired, never bored,
and she is waiting us to wake up to her reality, her nature. That is the absolute mother punya par
amata or wisdom that conditions others.
So her nature, that to explore, to bring that realization, and to be bored, that's nature, what
alternate teaching said, meditate.
And that's what we meditate also in half sutta vata, in which I, at the beginning of the prayers,
inexpressible, unceasing, unbound, natural in the sky,
by experiencing or self-reflection awareness only to behold these great mothers.
When you have the glimpse, understand over here, nature, this our nature, that which is waiting us
to wake up to that,
we have the glimpse, understand that nature, that will shatter the emotions, that will shatter the
ego clings, that will shatter all obstacles.
They are so powerful, so magnificent, and that is what really the absolute mother punya paramata
and the absolute mother was saying that conditions others.
This is this nature, as I said, is inconceivable of love, compassion, wisdom, and openness for the
emptiness.
Since it is so space, so open, so impactful, therefore her radiating energy is actively emanating,
many different emanations.
Those emanations are actively embedded as like the semi visible level, known as sambhokaya levels.
Sambhokaya brothers, many of you know already, many of you already know sambhokayas.
Really, sambhokaya means richness of the enlightenment, call it.
Reachingness of compassion, reachingness of the wisdom, reachingness of the loving kindness,
reachingness of all the skills and methods, the variety of that nature, and that luxury is totally
surrounded.
That is known as sambhokaya mother, Muslim definition, so on.
In that poem, again he has many different emanations, such as various yoginis, various varahees,
and then also five dhyana buddhas.
All those are five female dhyana buddhas. All those are known as female sambhokaya buddha of the
wisdom dakinis and so on.
So this is again active, manifestating in the richness of these all beautiful qualities.
Call it from the impar, what's called impar or inconceivable level, then reigniter of that quality
came as a semi visible status.
Why I'm using semi visible status? Because this richness call of the sambhokaya, we cannot really
behold it immediately.
They are like highly culpable and practicalness, highly relaxation based can be hold that and
externally, inwardly we can experience that.
We cannot experience it because we can't experience immediately in a way it's blocked by our dual
ities, our obscurations to behold that.
So therefore it's in a semi stateless and always in the teaching state where this sambhokaya is, s
ambhokaya buddhas.
Sambhokaya buddhas residing in the inconceivable pure land, all the pure land that is beyond the
conception states.
That is the place where they reside instead. It's not just their residing, purpose of their
residing then, but they are open all the time.
It's not something they restricted, but because due to our defilement and our obscurations, we
cannot behold it immediately.
We cannot behold our true nature of the sambhokaya immediately.
Because of our obscurations of the duality that is kind of dense up, built up densely many lif
etimes.
So therefore, again, to reconnect with that, what have we do?
We practice, meditate to bring the full potential bloom of that nature.
And that is then appeared in the form as sambhokaya female buddhas, as I said, five female buddhas,
and Vaidya yoginis, and so forth.
Those emanations are known as the sambhokaya female buddhas of the Vasanandakini's audience.
Then the narmakaya of the Vasanandakini's audience today is more actively in a kind of like
ordinary ways, in a teaching city.
Even though it's not really ordinary that we call duality, which cannot proceed easily immediately,
but they are known as the narmakayas.
What means the narmakaya in the Sanskrit world? It means emanations, emanating, emanating and
engaging to as indeed for the duality beings, that they are emanated beings.
Those are known as the narmakaya buddhas.
And those narmakaya buddhas, who are they?
Actually, again, it is the narmakaya buddhas of the old tars, for example, kareen tara, white tara,
and tundi wantanas.
And all those are known as the narmakaya emanations of the Vaidya Vasanandakini's audience.
And even though, again, tara and all these tundi wantara, we can immediately perceive that because
of our dualities, these kareks of the obscurations, kind of blocking that, to behold that
realization, understanding that.
But however, they are, again, always, in a way, waiting for us to proceed to see the nature of that
.
Right. There is no, again, kind of like lack of the compassion, lack of the wisdom, lack of the
love and kindness.
They are full of love and compassion, wisdom, and that is also, that is our potential in a way, too
.
It's waiting us to wake up this reality, we call it this.
So that's why. And then, yeshim surya, for example, a period.
Yeshim surya is known as the rename emanations. It's a narmakaya, but from the narmakaya Buddha, he
appeared as form of the human beings.
Again, he came in this world, about 1,200 years ago, or 8th century.
According to his story, he came in the midst of 8th century in Tibet.
He is a direct emanation, of course. He is the emanation of all those dharmakaya,
darmakaya, pimal Buddha, sambhokaya, pimal Buddha, and narmakaya, pimal Buddhas.
But he appeared as human forms of the rename makayas, kayas, in the center of it, known as ishin s
urya.
And even though he is a total enlightened beings, and as he demonstrated, with courage and
commitment and determination,
joyful effort, and such a full devotion to receive the teaching and the practice, even though he is
already enlightened beings,
but to show us, example, to the following, to all of us, really, she put also teachings into the
heart and the practices.
And then, she became transcendent of Ram bodhi. She can't show that.
She demonstrated that way. She reached the transcendent of Ram bodhi.
And the teacher also said, he emanated the world positive to Tibet,
in order to spreading, and in order to enlighten, the spreading the teachings of the Vedayana,
and particularly the teachings of the Gaurapayama sambhokas.
Gaurapayama sambhokas, when he came to Tibet, he gave so many teachings, particularly Vedayana
teachings,
which is then related mostly to the inner tantras, Mahayoga tantras, Anu-yoga tantras, Atayoga tant
ras.
He gave all those, so many teachings.
But as soon as he gave the teachings, most of those teachings, he came to them immediately to ask
her about that.
In her meditation power, in the sambhokas' letters, which is known as Dakini sign language, but it
is sambhokas' languages.
Sambhokas' language, in a way, is sambhokas' codes.
And then, he hidden those teachings throughout the Tibet,
together with blessings from Gaurapayama sambhokas, throughout the Tibet, with meditation powers.
Without going to different locations, he hidden all along with the different ritual objects, and
blessing objects, and so forth.
He hidden all the spiritual generations.
As Gaurapayama sambhokas, he hidden those teachings, and then also they are discovered by many
great ertums,
one after another, from the end of the 10th century, even until now.
So many great ertums and beings who discovered those teachings, those ritual objects, those
blessing objects,
really discovered and distributed to benefit all beings, so many beings.
And so that is how he did activities.
Therefore, again, in his life, what he did, he showed devotion, courage, commitment, and joy for
effort, have both each other.
He received all the teachings from Gaurapayama sambhokas, particularly many from Gaurapayama sambh
okas.
And he practiced that.
And also, he is known as one of the nine Heartless students from Gaurapayama sambhokas.
He received the first time teaching with other groups of the students,
and all of them become known as nine Heartless students, and he is one of them.
And he is particularly the master of the Vedic Rayas.
He practiced Vedic Rayas as he received that teaching that had come and connected.
He practiced, he meditated, and he became as the state of Vedic life.
And that particular practice of Vedic life is in southern Vedic, or in the eastern in, sorry,
eastern Bhutan,
known as the lion's nest, or the lion's castle.
Castle, monkana, and sundae.
He is very famous Vedic.
He practiced meditation and actuality in Vedic life state as well.
And then, together with that, he was practiced, and as he said before,
finally he became totally enlightened, or the transcendental historian of all this.
He stayed in Tibet according to the story.
Muruganma sambhokas said about 55 years in Tibet, and then he left.
But he stayed over 200 years, some say, if not, definitely over 100 years that he stayed.
Sometimes 200 years, they counted as, like, a waxing moon, and a wading moon, as well, two months.
So then it became kind of 100 years, become 200, one month, become two months, in a way.
They kind of do that system in India, and actually in Chintang, maybe in Tibet it does,
but India still, I think they do in villages, rural areas, they do that.
So that system, and he stayed over in the teaching state, over 200 years.
Over 200 years, and after that, he kind of left, flew away in the sky,
went to the teaching state of the glory mountain, and he is still living Buddha,
along with the Gurupa and Masambhokas.
And all those are great thetans.
One after another, every time, this is called Padan Gurupa and Masambhokas,
mother Yishimshoyas, because every thetans, when you read the life story of those thetans,
they all receive so many instructions, blessings from Yishimshoyas.
Again and again, again and again, she comes on a dream, she came on a vision,
she comes on the reality level, on the, like, in the deep, broad daylight,
and so many of those great thetans have the life story they read in that.
In many ways, so she is a very active mother.
She never, she is beyond death and birth.
In that sense, she is the transcendental Masambhokas.
So that is the mother Masambhokas Yishimshoyas.